SR\_Watch
=========

watch a directory and post messages when files in it change
-----------------------------------------------------------

Manual section

:   1

Date

:   @Date@

Version

:   @Version@

Manual group

:   MetPX-Sarracenia

### SYNOPSIS

**sr\_watch** \[ \*-pburestartstatus\|stop\] \[path\]

### DESCRIPTION

Watches a directory and publishes posts when files in the directory
change (are added, modified, or deleted.) Its arguments are very similar
to [sr\_post](sr_post.1.md). In the MetPX-Sarracenia suite, the main
goal is to post the availability and readiness of one's files.
Subscribers use *sr\_subscribe* to consume the post and download the
files.

Posts are sent to an AMQP server, also called a broker, specified with
the option \[ *-pb\|--post\_broker broker\_url* \].

#### CREDENTIAL OPTIONS

The broker option sets all the credential information to connect to the
**RabbitMQ** server

-   **post\_broker
    amqp{s}://\<user\>:\<pw\>@\<brokerhost\>\[:port\]/\<vhost\>**

<!-- -->

    (default: amqp://anonymous:anonymous@dd.weather.gc.ca/ ) 

All sr\_ tools store all sensitive authentication info in the
credentials.conf file. Passwords for SFTP, AMQP, and HTTP accounts are
stored in URLÂ´s there, as well as other pointers to thins such as
private keys, or FTP modes.

For more details, see: [sr\_subscribe(1)
credentials](sr_subscribe.1.html#credentials)

#### Mandatory Settings

The \[*-u\|--url url*\] option specifies the protocol, credentials, host
and port to which subscribers will connect to get the file.

format of argument to the *url* option:

    [ftp|http|sftp]://[user[:password]@]host[:port]/
    or
    [ftp|http|sftp]://[user[:password]@]host[:port]/
    or
    file:

The \[*-p\|--path path*\] option tells *sr\_watch* what to look for. If
the *path* specifies a directory, *sr\_watches* create a posts for any
time a file in that directory that is created, modified or deleted. If
the *path* specifies a file, *sr\_watch* watches that only that file. In
the announcement, it is specified with the *path* of the product. There
is usually one post per file.

An example of an excution of *sr\_watch* checking a file:

    sr_watch -s sftp://stanley@mysftpserver.com/ -p /data/shared/products/foo -pb amqp://broker.com -action start

Here, *sr\_watch* checks events on the file /data/shared/products/foo.
Default events settings reports if the file the file is modified or
deleted. When the file gets modified, *sr\_watch* reads the file
/data/shared/products/foo and calculates its checksum. It then builds a
post message, logs into broker.com as user 'guest' (default credentials)
and sends the post to defaults vhost '/' and post\_exchange
'xs\_stanley' (default exchange)

A subscriber can download the file /data/shared/products/foo by logging
as user stanley on mysftpserver.com using the sftp protocol to
broker.com assuming he has proper credentials.

The output of the command is as follows :

    [INFO] v02.post.data.shared.products.foo '20150813161959.854 sftp://stanley@mysftpserver.com/ /data/shared/products/foo'
          source=guest parts=1,256,1,0,0 sum=d,fc473c7a2801babbd3818260f50859de 

In MetPX-Sarracenia, each post is published under a certain topic. After
the '\[INFO\]' the next information gives the fBtopic\* of the post.
Topics in *AMQP* are fields separated by dot. In MetPX-Sarracenia it is
made of a *topic\_prefix* by default : version *V02* , an action *post*
, followed by the *subtopic* by default : the file path separated with
dots, here, *data.shared.products.foo*

After the topic hierarchy comes the body of the notification. It
consists of a time *20150813161959.854* , and the source url of the file
in the last 2 fields.

The remaining line gives informations that are placed in the amqp
message header. Here it consists of *source=guest* , which is the amqp
user, *parts=1,256,0,0,1* , which suggest to download the file in 1 part
of 256 bytes (the actual filesize), trailing 1,0,0 gives the number of
block, the remaining in bytes and the current block.
*sum=d,fc473c7a2801babbd3818260f50859de* mentions checksum information,
here, *d* means md5 checksum performed on the data, and
*fc473c7a2801babbd3818260f50859de* is the checksum value. When the event
on a file is a deletion, sum=R,0 R stands for remove.

Another example watching a file:

    sr_watch -dr /data/web/public_data -s http://dd.weather.gc.ca/ -p bulletins/alphanumeric/SACN32_CWAO_123456 -pb amqp://broker.com -action start

By default, sr\_watch checks the file
/data/web/public\_data/bulletins/alphanumeric/SACN32\_CWAO\_123456
(concatenating the base\_dir and relative path of the source url to
obtain the local file path). If the file changes, it calculates its
checksum. It then builds a post message, logs into broker.com as user
'guest' (default credentials) and sends the post to defaults vhost '/'
and post\_exchange 'sx\_guest' (default post\_exchange)

A subscriber can download the file
<http://dd.weather.gc.ca/bulletins/alphanumeric/SACN32_CWAO_123456>
using http without authentication on dd.weather.gc.ca.

An example checking a directory:

    sr_watch -dr /data/web/public_data -s http://dd.weather.gc.ca/ -p bulletins/alphanumeric -pb amqp://broker.com -action start

Here, sr\_watch checks for file creation(modification) in
/data/web/public\_data/bulletins/alphanumeric (concatenating the
base\_dir and relative path of the source url to obtain the directory
path). If the file SACN32\_CWAO\_123456 is being created in that
directory, sr\_watch calculates its checksum. It then builds a post
message, logs into broker.com as user 'guest'

A subscriber can download the created/modified file
<http://dd.weather.gc.ca/bulletins/alphanumeric/SACN32_CWAO_123456>
using http without authentication on dd.weather.gc.ca.

### ARGUMENTS AND OPTIONS

Please refer to the [sr\_subscribe(1)](sr_subscribe.1.md) manual page
for a detailed description of common settings, and methods of specifying
them.

#### \[--blocksize \<value\>\]

the value should be one of:

    0 - autocompute an appropriate partitioning strategy (default)
    1 - always send files in a single part.
    p,<sz> - used a fixed partition size (example size: 1M )

Files can be announced as multiple blocks (or parts.) Each part has a
separate checksum. The parts and their checksums are stored in the
cache. Partitions can traverse the network separately, and in paralllel.
When files change, transfers are optimized by only sending parts which
have changed.

The autocomputation algorithm determines a blocksize that encourages a
reasonable number of parts for files of various sizes. As the file size
varies, the automatic computation will give different results. This will
result in resending information which has not changed as partitions of a
different size will have different sums. Where large files are being
appended to, it make sense to specify a fixed partition size.

In cases where a custom downloader is used which does not understand
partitioning, it is necessary to avoid having the file split into parts,
so one would specify '1' to force all files to be send as a single part.

The value of the *blocksize* is an integer that may be followed by
letter designator *\[BMT\]* meaning: for Bytes, Kilobytes, Megabytes,
Gigabytes, Terabytes respectively. All theses references are powers of
2.

#### \[-pb\|--post\_broker \<broker\>\]

> *broker* is the broker to connect to to send the post.

#### \[-c\|--config \<configfile\>\]

> A file filled with options.

#### \[--delete \<boolean\>\]

In force\_polling mode, assume that directories empty themselves, so
that every file in each *path* should be posted at every polling pass,
instead of just new ones. Use caching to ignore the ones seen before. In
polling mode, the speed of reconition of files is limited to the speed
at which a tree can be traversed. The scanning method needs to be chosen
based on the performance sought.

#### \[-pbd\|--post\_base\_dir \<path\>\]

The *base\_dir* option supplies the directory path that, when combined
with the relative one from *source url* , gives the local absolute path
to the data file to be posted.

#### \[-eevent\|...\>\]

A list of event types to monitor separated by a 'pipe symbol'. Available
events: create, delete, follow, link, modify, poll Default: default is
all of them, except poll

The *create*, *modify*, and *delete* events reflect what is expected: a
file being created, modified, or deleted. If *link* is set, symbolic
links will be posted as links so that consumers can choose how to
process them. if it is not set, then no symbolic link events will ever
be posted.

Note

move or rename events result in a special double post pattern, with one
post as the old name and a field *newname* set, and a second post with
the new name, and a field *oldname* set. This allows subscribers to
perform an actual rename, and avoid triggering a download when possible.

#### \[-pe\|--post\_exchange \<exchange\>\]

> sr\_watch publishes to an exchange named *[xs]()*"broker\_username" by
> default. Use the *exchange* option to override that default.

#### \[-fp\|--force\_polling \<boolean\>\]

By Default, sr\_watch selects a (OS dependent) optimal method to watch a
directory. For large trees, the optimal method can be manyfold (10x or
even 100x) faster to recognize when a file has been modified. In some
cases, however, platform optimal methods do not work (such as with some
network shares, or distributed file systems), so one must use a slower
but more reliable and portable polling method. The *force\_polling*
keyword causes sr\_watch to select the polling method in spite of the
availability of a normally better one. KNOWN LIMITATION: When
*force\_polling* is set, the *sleep* setting, should be at least 5
seconds. It is not currently clear why.

NOTE:

    When directories are consumed by processes using the subscriber *delete* option, they stay empty, and
    every file should be reported on every pass.  When subscribers do not use *delete*, sr_watch needs to
    know which files are new.  It does so by noting the time of the beginning of the last polling pass.
    File are posted if their modification time is newer than that.  This will result in many multiple posts
    by sr_watch, which can be minimized with the use of cache.   One could even depend on the cache
    entirely and turn on the *delete* option, which will have sr_watch attempt to post the entire tree
    every time (ignoring mtime)

#### \[-fs\|--follow\_symlinks \<boolean\>\]

The *follow\_symlinks* option causes symbolic links to be traversed. if
*follow\_symlinks* is set and the destination of a symbolic link is a
file, then that destination file should be posted as well as the link.
If the destination of the symbolic link is a directory, then the
directory should be added to those being monitored by sr\_watch. If
*follow\_symlinks* is false, then no action related to the destination
of the symbolic link is taken.

#### \[-header \<name\>=\<value\>\]

Add a \<name\> header with the given value to advertisements. Used to
pass strings as metadata in the advertisements to improve decision
making for consumers. Should be used sparingly. There are limits on how
many headers can be used, and the minimizing the size of messages has
important performance impacts.

#### \[-h--help\]

Display program options.

#### \[-l \<logpath\>\]

Set a file where all the logs will be written. Logfile will rotate at
'midnight' and kept for an history of 5 files.

#### \[-p\|--path path\]

**sr\_post** evaluates the filesystem path from the **path** option and
possibly the **post\_base\_dir** if the option is used.

If a path defines a file this file is watched.

If a path defines a directory then all files in that directory are
watched...

If this path defines a directory, all files in that directory are
watched and should **sr\_watch** find one (or more) directory(ies), it
watches it(them) recursively until all the tree is scanned.

The AMQP announcements are made of the tree fields, the announcement
time, the **url** option value and the resolved paths to which were
withdrawn the *post\_base\_dir* present and needed.

#### \[-real\|--realpath \<boolean\>\]

The realpath option resolves paths given to their canonical ones,
eliminating any indirection via symlinks. The behaviour improves the
ability of sr\_watch to monitor trees, but the trees may have completely
different paths than the arguments given. This option also enforces
traversing of symbolic links. This is implemented to preserve the
behaviour of an earlier iteration of sr\_watch, but it is not clear if
it required or useful. Feedback welcome.

#### \[-rn\|--rename \<path\>\]

With the *rename* option, the user can suggest a destination path for
its files. If the given path ends with '/' it suggests a directory
path... If it doesn't, the option specifies a file renaming.

#### \[-sub\|--subtopic \<key\>\]

The subtopic default can be overwritten with the *subtopic* option.

#### \[--sleep \<time\> \]

The time to wait between generating events. When files are written
frequently, it is counter productive to produce a post for every change,
as it can produce a continuous stream of changes where the transfers
cannot be done quickly enough to keep up. In such circumstances, one can
group all changes made to a file in *sleep* time, and produce a single
post.

#### \[-to\|--to \<destination\>,\<destination\>,... \]

> A comma-separated list of destination clusters to which the posted
> data should be sent. Ask pump administrators for a list of valid
> destinations.
>
> default: the hostname of the broker being posted to.

Note

FIXME: a good list of destination should be discoverable.

#### \[-tp\|--topic\_prefix \<key\>\]

By default, the topic is made of the default topic\_prefix : version
*V02* , an action *post* , followed by the default subtopic: the file
path separated with dots (dot being the topic separator for amqp). You
can overwrite the topic\_prefix by setting this option.

#### \[-pbu\|--post\_base\_url \<url\>\]

The **post\_base\_url** option sets the protocol, credentials, host and
port under which the product can be fetched.

The post body contains three fields: the announcement time, this
**post\_base\_url** value and the **path**, relative from
*post\_base\_dir*, if necessary.

The concatenation of the two last fields of the post gives the complete
URL subscribers use to download the file.

#### \[-sum\|--sum \<string\>\]

All file posts include a checksum. It is placed in the amqp message
header will have as an entry *sum* with default value
'd,md5\_checksum\_on\_data'. The *sum* option tell the program how to
calculate the checksum. It is a comma separated string. Valid checksum
flags are :

    [0|n|d|s|N|z]
    where 0 : no checksum... value in post is a random integer (only for testing/debugging.)
          d : do md5sum on file content (default for now, compatibility)
          n : do md5sum checksum on filename
          N : do SHA512 checksum on filename
          s : do SHA512 on file content (default in future)
          z,a : calculate checksum value using algorithm a and assign after download.

Other checksum algorithms can be added. See Programming Guide.

#### File Detection Strategies

The fundamental job of sr\_watch is to notice when files are available
to be transferred. The appropriate strategy varies according to:

> -   the **number of files in the tree** to be monitored,
> -   the **minimum time to notice changes** to files that is
>     acceptable, and
> -   the **size of each file** in the tree.

**The easiest tree to monitor is the smallest one.** With a single
directory to watch where one is posting for an *sr\_sarra* component,
then use of the *delete* option will keep the number of files in
directory at any one point small and minimize the time to notice new
ones. In such optimal conditions, noticing files in a hundredth of a
second is reasonable to expect. Any method will work well for such
trees, but the sr\_watch defaults (inotify) are usually lowest overhead.

sr\_watch is sr\_post with the added *sleep* option that will cause it
to loop over directories given as arguments. sr\_cpost is a C version
that functions identically, except it is faster and uses much less
memory, at the cost of the loss of plugin support. With sr\_watch (and
sr\_cpost) The default method of noticing changes in directories uses OS
specific mechanisms (on Linux: INOTIFY) to recognize changes without
having to scan the entire directory tree manually. Once primed, file
changes are noticed instantaneously, but requires a an initial walk
across the tree, *a priming pass*.

For example, **assume a server can examine 1500 files/second**. If a
**medium sized tree is 30,000 files, then it will take 20 seconds for a
priming pass**. Using the fastest method available, one must assume that
on startup for such a directory tree it will take 20 seconds or so
before it starts reliably posting all files in the tree. After that
initial scan, files are noticed with sub-second latency. So a **sleep of
0.1 (check for file changes every tenth of a second) is reasonable, as
long as we accept the intial priming pass.** If one selects
**force\_polling** option, then that 20 second delay is incurred for
each polling pass, plus the time to perform the posting itself. **For
the same tree, a *sleep* setting of 30 seconds would be the minimum to
recommend. Expect that files will be noticed about 1.5\* the *sleep*
settings on average.** In this example, about when they are about 45
seconds. Some will be picked up sooner, others later. Apart from special
cases where the default method misses files, it is much slower on medium
sized trees than the default and should not be used if timeliness is a
concern.

In supercomputing clusters, distributed files systems are used, and the
OS optimized methods for recognizing file modifications (INOTIFY on
Linux) do not cross node boundaries. To use sr\_watch with the default
strategy on a directory in a compute cluster, one usually must have an
sr\_watch process running on every node. If that is undesirable, then
one can deploy it on a single node with *force\_polling* but the timing
will be constrained by the directory size.

As the tree being monitored grows in size, sr\_watchÂ´s latency on
startup grows, and if polling is used the latency to notice file
modifications will grow as well. For example, with a tree with 1 million
files, one should expect, at best, a startup latency of 11 minutes. If
using polling, then a reasonable expectation of the time it takes to
notice new files would be in the 16 minute range.

If the performance above is not sufficient, then one needs to consider
the use of the shim library instead of sr\_watch. First, install the C
version of Sarracenia, then set the environment for all processes
writing files that need to be posted to call it:

    export SR_POST_CONFIG=shimpost.conf
    export LD_PRELOAD="libsrshim.so.1"

where *shimpost.conf* is an sr\_cpost configuration file in the
\~/.config/sarra/post/ directory. An sr\_cpost configuration file is the
same as an sr\_post one, except that plugins are not supported. With the
shim library in place, whenever a file is written, the *accept/reject*
clauses of the shimpost.conf file are consulted, and if accepted, the
file is posted just as it would be by sr\_watch.

So far, the discussion has been about the time to notice a file has
changed. Another consideration is the time to post files once they have
been noticed. There are tradeoffs based on the checksum algorithm
chosen. The most robust choice is the default: *s* or SHA-512. When
using the *s* sum method, the entire file will be read in order to
calculate it's checksum, which is likely to determine the time to
posting. The check sum will used by downstream consumers to determine
whether the file being announced is new, or one that has already been
seen, and is really handy.

**For smaller files, checksum calculation time is negligeable, but it is
generally true that bigger files take longer to post.** When **using the
shim library** method, the same process that wrote the file is the one
**calculating the checksum**, the likelihood of the file data being in a
locally accessible cache is quite high, so it **is as inexpensive as
possible**. It should also be noted that the sr\_watch/sr\_cpost
**directory watching processes are single threaded, while when user jobs
call sr\_post, or use the shim library, there can be as many processes
posting files as there are file writers.**

To shorten posting times, one can select *sum* algorithms that do not
read the entire file, such as *N* (SHA-512 of the file name only), but
then one loses the ability to differentiate between versions of the
file.

note ::

:   should think about using N on the sr\_watch, and having
    multi-instance shovels recalculate checksums so that part becomes
    easily parallellizable. Should be straightforward, but not yet
    explored as a result of use of shim library. FIXME.

A last consideration is that in many cases, other processes are writing
files to directories being monitored by sr\_watch. Failing to properly
set file completion protocols is a common source of intermittent and
difficult to diagnose file transfer issues. For reliable file transfers,
it is critical that both the writer and sr\_watch agree on how to
represent a file that isn't complete.

#### File Detection Strategy Table

+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
\| \| \| File Detection Strategies (Order: Fastest to Slowest ) \| \|
Faster Methods Work for Larger Trees. \| \| \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
\| Method \| Description \| Application \|
+=============+=======================================+======================================+
\| Many user jobs which cannot be \| - requires C package. - export
LD\_PRELOAD=libsrshim.so.1 \| \| - must tune rejects as everything \| -
multi-million file trees. \| might be posted. \| - most efficient. \| \|
\| - works on any size file tree. \| - more complicated to setup. \| -
very multi-threaded. \| - use where python3 not available. \| \| \| -
I/O by writer (better localized) \| - no sr\_watch needed. \| - very
multi-threaded (user processes)\| - no plugins. \| \| \| \| \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
\| User posts only when file is complete.\| [sr\_post(1)](sr_post.1.md)
\| \| or other sr\_ components \| \| after file writing complete. \| \|
\| \| \| - user has finest grain control. \| \| \| - poster builds
checksums \| - usually best. \| - fewer round trips (no renames) \| - if
available, do not use sr\_watch. \| - only a little slower than shim. \|
- requires explicit posting by user \| - no directory scanning. \|
scripts/jobs. \| - many sr\_posts can run at once. \| \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
works like watch if sleep \> 0 \| - where python3 is hard to get. \| \|
\| \| - where speed is critical. \| - faster than sr\_watch \| - where
plugins not needed. \| \| \| - uses less memory than sr\_watch. \| -
same issues with tree size \| \| \| - practical with a bit bigger trees.
\| as sr\_watch, just a little later. \| \| \| \| (see following
methods) \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Files transferred with a *.tmp* suffix. When complete, renamed without
suffix. Sending to systems that \| Prefix names with '.' that need that.
(compatibility) \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
\| \| Minimum age (modification time) of the file before it is
considered complete. \| \| \| \| \| \| - Adds delay in every transfer.
\| \| - Vulnerable to network failures. \| \| \| \| - Vulnerable to
clock skew. \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
As per above 3, but uses plain old directory listings. - Large trees
means slower to notice \| \| \| \| new files \| \| - should work
anywhere. \| \| \| \|
+-------------+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+

### DEVELOPER SPECIFIC OPTIONS

#### \[-debug\|--debug\]

Active if *-debug\|--debug* appears in the command line... or *debug* is
set to True in the configuration file used.

#### \[-r\|--randomize\]

Active if *-r\|--randomize* appears in the command line... or
*randomize* is set to True in the configuration file used. If there are
several posts because the file is posted by block because the
*blocksize* option was set, the block posts are randomized meaning that
the will not be posted ordered by block number.

#### \[-rr\|--reconnect\]

Active if *-rc\|--reconnect* appears in the command line... or
*reconnect* is set to True in the configuration file used. *If there are
several posts because the file is posted by block because
the*blocksize\* option was set, there is a reconnection to the broker
everytime a post is to be sent.

#### \[--on\_heartbeat\]

Every *heartbeat* seconds, the *on\_heartbeat* is invoked. For periodic
operationsl that happen relatively rarely, scale of many minutes,
usually. The argument is actually a duration, so it can be expressed in
various time units: 5m (five minutes), 2h (two hours), days, or weeks.

#### \[--on\_watch\]

Every *sleep* seconds, file system changes occurred are processed in a
batch. Prior to this processing, the *on\_watch* plugin is invoked. It
can be used to put a file in one of the watched directories... and have
it published. sleep is usually a much shorter interval than the
heartbeat. It is also a duration, and so can be expressed in the same
units as well.

### CAVEATS

#### Temporary Files

In order to avoid alerting for partially written (usually temporary)
files, *sr\_watch* does not post events for changes to files with
certain names:

> -   files whose names begin with a dot **.**
> -   files whose names end in .tmp

Note

FIXME: is this right? need better does it ignore part files? should it?

#### Inotify Instance

Many linux systems have limits on how many directories can be watched
that are set quite low, to minimize kernel memory usage. If you see a
message like so:

    raise OSError("inotify instance limit reached")
    OSError: inotify instance limit reached

In that case, use adminsitrative privileges to set *sysctl
fs.inotify.max\_user\_instance=\<enough\>* to a number that is big
enough. More kernel memory will be allocated for this, no other effects
if changeing this setting are known.

### SEE ALSO

[sr\_post(1)](sr_post.1.md) - post announcemensts of specific files.

[sr\_post(7)](sr_post.7.md) - the format of announcement messages.

[sr\_report(7)](sr_report.7.md) - the format of report messages.

[sr\_report(1)](sr_report.1.md) - process report messages.

[sr\_sarra(8)](sr_sarra.8.md) - Subscribe, Acquire, and ReAdvertise
tool.

[sr\_subscribe(1)](sr_subscribe.1.md) - The download client (main
manual page.)
