UPGRADE GUIDE
=============

This file documents changes in behaviour to provide guidance to those
upgrading from a previous version. To upgrade across several versions,
one needs to start at the version after the one installed, and heed all
notifications for interim versions. While configuration language
stability is an important goal, on occasion changes cannot be avoided.
This file does not document new features, but only changes that cause
concern during upgrades. The notices take the form:

**CHANGE**

:   indicates where configurations files must be changed to get the same
    behviour as prior to release.

**ACTION**

:   Indicates a maintenance activity required as part of an upgrade
    process.

**BUG**

:   indicates a bug serious to indicate that deployment of this version
    is not recommended.

*NOTICE*

:   a behaviour change that will be noticeable during upgrade, but is no
    cause for concern.

*SHOULD*

:   indicate recommended interventions that are recommended, but not
    mandatory. If prescribed activity is not done, the consequence is
    either a configuration line that has no effect (wasteful) or the
    application may generate messages.

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

[Installation Guide](Install.md)

git origin/master branch
------------------------

upto 2.18.05b4
--------------

only bug-fixes and improvements, no regressions or changes.

2.18.03b3
---------

*CHANGE*: sr\_poll option directory : in some case you might need to get rid of the first /

:   Previous version had a bug in code that caused it to be removed.
    This is mostly the case for a protocol that should use a directory
    in the user's home.

2.18.03b1
---------

*NOTICE*: just make sure the exchange is declared before any subtopic declarations...

:   As they are bind together in the consumer queue and define the
    messages to receive Improper setting may lead to a process that
    seems to be hung.

2.18.02a1
---------

*CHANGE*: default broker *dd.weather.gc.ca* removed. the default caused confusion when configurations

:   where configurations were absent or invalid, but worked anyways
    (though not as intended.) it appears better for usability to make
    the argument mandatory.

*NOTICE*: OOPS! https download support was missing, no-one had noticed.

:   We added it in this release.

2.18.01a5
---------

*NOTICE*: This is likely the last alpha release. All changes required for feature completeness are done now.

:   No breaking changes in configuration language to be expected for a
    long time. Stabilizing towards beta.

2.18.01a4
---------

*NOTICE*: backed out of plugin convention enforcement mentioned in 2.18.01a2. Now there is a new *plugin*

:   option that supports new style, and the old style is left alone.

2.18.01a3
---------

*NOTICE*: new plugin api features disabled on python \< 3.3 (avoid crash
on ubuntu 12.04)

*NOTICE*: got rid of harmless error message of previous release.

2.18.01a2
---------

*NOTICE*: when using a do\_download plugin, a harmless error message is printed on startup:

:   \[ERROR\] sr\_config/option 4 Type: \<class 'AttributeError'\>,
    Value: 'sr\_subscribe' object has no attribute 'do\_download\_list',
    ... This error has no effect.

*NOTICE*: Note change to *durable* default from previous version, for transition can specify *durable no*

:   in configuration to use existing queues, and/or --reset to redefine
    queue with new setting.

*CHANGE*: plugins convention now enforced. One must declare a class with some upper case

:   characters in the name. Then instantiate the class with a variable
    that is the all lower case version of the class name:

<!-- -->

``` sourceCode
Class MyPlugin():
    def __init__(self,parent):
        pass

    def on_message(self,parent): 
        """ prior to this version convention was to use *perform*, but now naming
             it after it's intended use is preferred. (any name will still work.)
        """

myplugin = MyPlugin(self)     
#prior to this version, myplugin could have any name, now it must be lower case version of class name.
self.on_message = myplugin.on_message
```

2.18.01a1
---------

*NOTICE*: All components print their settings on startup.

*NOTICE*: The default for *inflight* was NONE in sr\_sender, contrary to what was stated in the documentation and contrary to intent.

:   This would cause deliveries using the sender to use the final name
    without a temporary one being chosen, causing many cases where files
    which weren't complete being picked up when relying on the default
    configuration.

*NOTICE*: default prefetch=25 now, was 1. noticed this was wrong once
started printing settings.

*CHANGE*: *inflight* for sender now defaults to '.tmp' when no post\_broker is set, and NONE when it is. If this behaviour is undesired,

:   one must add *inflight NONE* to the obtain the previous behaviour.

*CHANGE*: default changed from false to True. Existing queues will fail to bind. As transition.

:   All queues should be declared durable. for all existing flows, add
    *durable false* to declaration, and plan migration to durable queue
    later.

2.17.12a6
---------

*NOTICE*: heartbeat processing now works correctly. *NOTICE*: more cases
of same bug fixed.

2.17.12a5
---------

*NOTICE*: found additional cases of 12a2 bug, fixed.

2.17.12a4
---------

*NOTICE*: fix for 12a2 bug, that caused retries without sleeping. now it
does exponential backoff.

2.17.12a3
---------

*NOTICE*: added retry\_ttl to age files in retry\_queue so they
eventually age out.

2.17.12a2
---------

**BUG**: sr\_sender retry connection no sleep interval, hammers server,
fills logs rapidly.

*NOTICE*: added heartbeat\_memory to default plugins, so components
periodically restart when leaking. *NOTICE*: fixed bug
sr\_post/sr\_watch does not apply *events* option (posts all events
regardless.) *NOTICE*: fixed bug performance regression by switching to
1Mbyte buffers, and fixed timers.

2.17.12a1
---------

**BUG**: sr\_post/sr\_watch does not apply *events* option (posts all
events regardless.)

**BUG**: performance regression caused by timeouts added changing
buffering to use 8K ones.

*CHANGE*: accept\_unmatch now always honoured. Formerly was set by
presence/absence of accept/reject clauses. Now, by default, a file with
no accept/reject clauses will reject all files in subscribe and sender
configurations, and accept all files in all other components (post,
poll, sarra, shovel, winnow) For Subscribe and sender configuration that
have no accept and or reject clauses, one must add

*accept\_unmatch*

to the end of the configuration file to have it behave the same as prior
versions.

*NOTICE*: Generally fixes to recover when operations do not complete.
Pulse & timers.

2.17.11a3
---------

**BUG**: sr\_post sometimes requires -p (-path) option before file
names, where it didn't before.

*NOTICE*: fix for message bug in 11a2.

*NOTICE*: now prefers amqplib (reverted from preference for pika in 11a1
and 2.) use\_pika yes to force usage.

*NOTICE*: sr\_watch/sr\_post/sr\_poll now merged, so sr\_watch start
will now post whole tree, rather than just differences. Use of
*suppress\_duplicates* now encouraged with sr\_watch.

*NOTICE*: no other changes...

2.17.11a2
---------

**BUGS**: ugly log message from syntax error in where: Message: '%s does
not have vip=%s, is sleeping' Arguments: (('sr\_winnow',
'192.168.xx.yy'),) shows up when using VIP. fills log with garbage.

*NOTICE*: bugfixes only. No changes needed vs. 11a1.

2.17.11a1
---------

**BUGS**: ugly log message from syntax error in where: Message: '%s does
not have vip=%s, is sleeping' Arguments: (('sr\_winnow',
'192.168.xx.yy'),) shows up when using VIP. fills log with garbage.

*SHOULD*: change document\_root -\> base\_dir (same for post\_
variations.) The code still understands the old values, but you will see
a warning message advising you to change it.

*SHOULD*: change ${PDR} -\> ${PBD} to mirror above change. There will be
no visible effect of this, but at some future release, PDR will be
dropped.

*SHOULD*: URL option to post\_base\_url option. will still understand
old values, but warning will result.

*SHOULD*: use post\_ versions in sr\_post, so now it is post\_base\_url,
post\_base\_dir, post\_exchange Again, code still understands previous
settings, but will warn.

*NOTICE*: now prefers to use pika library if available, but falls back
to amqplib library available on older OS's. amqplib will be deprecated
over time.

2.17.10a3
---------

**BUGS**: switched to using pika for amqp library, which isn't available \< ubuntu 16.04.

:   do not install on systems where pika not available.

**CHANGE**: sr\_sender now includes by default: on\_message
msg\_2localfile, so that change from previous versions @ 2.17.10 no
longer required.

**ACTION**: must run sr\_audit --reset --users foreground to correct
permissions, since it was broken in previous release.

Many issues resolved closer to usable.

2.17.10a2
---------

**BUGS**: Do not install this version. result of major refactor only
used for deployment testing.

strip behaviour bug may be restored, that might solve the send issue.

2.17.10a1
---------

**BUGS**: Do not install this version. result of major refactor only used for deployment testing.

:   many small issues, a bit numerous to list.

**CHANGE**: All sr\_sender configurations require plugin to read from
local files. Please Add:

    on_message msg_2localfile

Failure to do so will result in *The file to send is not local* message,
and send will fail.

**CHANGE**: default *expire* setting was 10080 (in mins) which means
expire after a week. Now it is 5 minutes. **It will also result data
loss**, by dropping messages should the default be used in cases where
the old value was expected. A disconnection of more than 5 minutes will
cause the queue to be erased. To configure what was previously the
default behaviour, use setting:

    *expire 1W*

failure to do so, when connecting to configurations with older pumps
versions may result in warning messages about mismatched properties when
starting up an existing client.

**CHANGE**: expire and/or message\_ttl settings now in seconds. To get
previous behaviour, append to the value m or M for minutes:

    old: *expire 240*      equivalent to new:  *expire 240M*
    old: "message_ttl 480* equivalent to new:  *message_ttl 480M*
    old: logdays 5        equivalent to new:  *logdays 5d*

**CHANGE**: in sr\_sarra, processing messages on initial ingest must
have in their config changed:

    **REPLACE**

    *mirror false*
    *source_from_exchange true*
    *[perhaps some accept/reject sequence]*

    **FOR THIS**

    *mirror true*
    *source_from_exchange true*
    *directory ${PDR}/${YYYYMMDD}/${SOURCE}*
    *[same accept/reject sequence if any]*

PDR means post\_document\_root... if not provided, its value is the same
as document\_root. Any message without a source will be fixed with a
value starting with the exchange if [xs\_source]()*, the option source
or the broker username of the originating message. When a message comes
from a source, the optionsource\_from\_exchange true*\* must be set to
make sure to set the message's headers\[source\] and
headers\[from\_cluster\] to the proper value.

**NOTICE**: cache state file format changed and are mutually
unintelligible between versions. During upgrade, old cache file will be
ignored. This may cause some files to be accepted a second time. *FIXME*
work-arounds?

**ACTION**: must run sr\_audit --reset --users foreground to correct
permissions, since it was broken in previous release.

2.17.08
-------

**BUG**: avoid this version to administer pumps because of bug 88:
sr\_audit creates report routing queues even when report\_daemons is
off, they fill up with messages (since they are never emptied.) This can
cause havoc. If report\_daemons is true, then there is no issue. Also no
problem for clients.

**ACTION**: (must run sr\_audit --users foreground to correct
permissions.) users now have permission to create exchanges. if
corrections not updated on broker, warning messages about exchange
declaration failures will occur.

*SHOULD*: remove all *declare exchange* statements in configuration
files, though they are harmless. configurations declare broker side
resources (exchanges and queues) by *setup* action. The resources can be
freed with the *cleanup* action. Formerly creation and deletion of
exchanges was an administrator activity.

*SHOULD*: cluster routing logic removed ( *cluster*, *gateway\_for*, and
*cluster\_aliases* ) these options are now ignored. If relying on these
options to restrict distribution (no known cases), that will stop
working. cluster propagation restriction to be implemented by plugins at
a future release. should remove all these options from configuration
files.

*SHOULD*: should remove all *<sftp://>* url lines from credentials.conf
files. Configuration of sftp should be done via openssh configuration,
and credential file only used as a last resort. Harmless if they remain,
however.

2.17.07
-------

**CHANGE**: sr\_sender *mirror* has been repaired. if no setting
present, then it will now mirror. to preserve previous behavior, add to
configuration:

    mirror off

*NOTICE*: switch from traditional init-style ordering to systemd style
--\> action comes before configuration. was:

    sr_subscriber myconfig start --> sr_subscriber start myconfig 

software issues warning message about the change, but old callup still
supported.

*NOTICE*: heartbeat log messages will appear every five minutes in logs,
by default, to differentiate no activity from a hung process.

2.17.06
-------

**CHANGE**: Review/Modify all plugins, as file variables of sender and subscriber converged.

:   on\_msg plugin variable for file naming for subscribers
    (sr\_subscribe,sarra,shovel,winnow) changed. Replace:

        self.msg.local_file --> self.msg.new_dir and self.msg.new_file

    on\_msg plugin variable for file naming for senders now same as for
    subscribers. Replace:

        self.remote_file --> self.msg.new_dir and self.msg.new_file

**CHANGE**: by default, the modification time of files is now restored
on delivery. To restore previous behaviour:

    preserve_time off

If preserve\_time is on (now default) and a message is received, then it
will be rejected if the mtime of the new file is not newer than the one
of the existing file.

**CHANGE**: by default, the permission bits of files is now restored on
delivery. To restore previous behaviour:

    preserve_mode off

**NOTICE**: use the *blocksize* option to determine partitioning
strategy. default is 0 (same as previous default) *parts* deprecated.

2.17.02
-------

*NOTICE*: sr\_watch re-implementation. now supports symlinks, multiple
traversal methods, etc... many behaviour improvements. FIXME: ?

**CHANGE**: plugins are now stackable. formerly, when two plugin
specifications were given, the newer one would replace the previous one.
Now both plugins will be executed in the order encountered.
